
# Personal Statement

My career must be of service. My life, through my work, reflects an urge to do
good. To do this I am furthering my understanding of three questions: (1) how
can humans best adapt their coastal communities to the projected challenges of
climate change? (2) what tools provide the most efficient means of applying the
answer to question number 1? Finally, (3) How can we improve these tools? In
answer to these three questions I am building a career as a coastal geographer
with skills in physical geography, spatial information science, and geospatial
technologies.

# Contact Info

[scott.v.hatcher (at) gmail (dot) com](mailto://scott.v.hatcher@gmail.com)

[CV](https://www.dropbox.com/s/pr37f6wlz3l2igq/SVHatcher_CV.pdf?dl=0)

[Resume](https://www.dropbox.com/s/01i20w8pb0f1iaq/SVHatcher_CV_geospatial_tech.pdf?dl=0)

[LinkedIn](https://nz.linkedin.com/in/svhatcher)

[Reddit](https://www.reddit.com/u/13scoter)

# Projects

## Automating the mapping of archaeological rock carvings on the Chatham Islands, New Zealand

For the purpose of preservation, as well as to facilitate analysis, some rock
carvings made on the face of a cave were scanned at very high resolution using
a white-light scanner. This was done by the Archaeology and Surveying
departments of the University of Otago in Dunedin, New Zealand. My job was to
attempt to automate the process of detecting the carvings from the surveying
data in order to quickly map their layout on the carving face.

  * Age of the rock face carvings:
  * Total number of individual survey points taken by the scanner:
  * Poster:

## Storm effects on an urban coastal dune

I was involved in a project that aimed to quantify the effect of highly oblique
winds in transporting sand over a coastal dune. This coastal dune, located on
the southern coast of Dunedin, New Zealand, is adjacent to municipal lands, and
is bordered by a large road made of backfill. The project used in situ
measurement techniques to quantify the effects of steering and acceleration of
the regional winds due to the local topography of the dune.

  * Published proceedings: 
  * Estimated amount of sand moved during a single storm:

## Marine geodatabase decision support system for Hawkes Bay Regional Council

The Hawkes Bay Regional Council needed an integrated system to store and
organize their multi-sourced data relevant to fisheries management decisions. I
assisted eCoast Ltd. in providing them with a solution.

  * Published report:
  * Gb of input data:

## CanCoast - providing a national estimate of coastal vulnerability

The goal of the CanCoast project is to improve upon the existing Coastal
Vulnerability Index (CVI) from Shaw et.al. (1998) using updated information on
Geology, Coastline shape, permafrost, and socioeconomic variables. To do this,
a GIS with all relevant layers was created, and then a new formula for
calculating a vulnerability index was developed.

  * Gb of input data
  * Length of Canadian shoreline at 1:20,000 scale:
  * Lines of code:

## Underwater photogrammetry at the Centre of Geographic Sciences

As part of my final project I attempted a 3D model of a scuba tank underwater
using oblqiue photogrammetry. This is very common place now (structure from
motion has advanced rapidly since then), but at the time I had a lot of fun
diving into new avenues of photogrammetry.

  * Depth of water:
  * Camera used:
  * Practical use for a 3D model of a scuba tank: None

## Assisting coastal planning in the Inuit communities of Northern Labrador (Memorial University, 2012-2013)

The community plans for the Inuit towns within Nunatsiavut, in northern
Labrador, rely on planners from Ottawa. This presents challenges when it comes
to community assets that are cultural and unmapped. The planners wanted to
incorporate this information into community plans, as well as fill in data gaps
to do with projected climatic change. A partnership with Memorial University
allowed this problem to be tackled.

  * Population of Nunatsiavut:
  * Hours spent meeting with community members:
  * Poster:

## Coastal Hazards in a rapidly expanding Arctic urban centre (M.Sc. 2011-2013)  

The city of Iqaluit needed an assessment of coastal hazards within Koojesse
Inlet, the main inlet servicing the city, in order to incorporate proper
planning into its five year plan, as well as it's long-term climate change
adaptation plan.

  * Published journal article:
  * Published GSC Open-File report:
  * Vertical height of tides in Koojesse Inlet: 12.4 m
  * Total hours of sea-level data collected for the project: 

## Revisiting the story of Hippalus, the great ancient navigator (B.A. in History, 2005-2009)

Hippalus has retained a seat in those remembered from ancient history as a
great navigator. It was he who cleverly began sailing due East once leaving the
Gulf of Aden and arriving on the Western coast of India, when all others
assumed this would be a suicide mission. His fame even gave his name to monsoon
winds that made his feat possible. The evidence we have, however, for his
existence is faint, but his story could help elucidate the way mythology shaped
the ancient Graeco-Roman world.

  * Time of the year the "Hippalus wind blows":
  * Distance of the journey from the Gulf of Aden to Mumbai:
  * Total number of times Hippalus is mentioned in the primary sources:
  * Published journal article:

## Local application of a method to measure Chlorophyll-A in coastal turbid waters (B.I.O. 2010)

Severe algal blooms occur in lake Ainslie, located in the northern part of Cape
Breton island, Nova Scotia. We can track these blooms from space, map their
extent within the lake, and even compute estimates of Chl-A concentrations
based on reflectance values in multi-spectral imagery.

  * Time of year algal blooms take place:
  * Lines of code:
  * MODIS imagery time series age:

## Photography

![Lightbox Image](/home/scott/bin/svHatch.github.io/img/lightbox.png)

I am an amateur photographer, enjoying taking photos of nature and of funny
situations. I keep my portfolio on [flickr](https://www.flickr.com/gp/143183184@N04/yHT3X4)

# Goals

**Short** - Gain employment in the geomatics field within Atlantic Canada.

**Long** - Build a career focused on coastal remote sensing within the geospatial
technology industry.

# Reflections

Communication

Design

Spatial Information Science
